---
title: Digital land sprint notes
date: 2020-01-10 to 2020-01-23
---

_This sprint we’ve made great progress with analysing developer contributions research and improving brownfield land tools and data. We’re also procuring for the local plans alpha phase._

## [Compulsory purchase orders](https://digital-land.github.io/project/compulsory-purchase-orders/)

We’ve completed redacting! In total, we’ve redacted and proof read 115 compulsory purchase order inspector reports and decision letters, which have now been sent to our policy colleagues for a final check. 

## [Brownfield land](https://digital-land.github.io/project/brownfield-sites/) 

We’ve continued to collect the [brownfield land registers](https://github.com/digital-land/brownfield-land-collection) published by local planning authorities. We’ve been adding and changing links as we notice links breaking, or when authorities notify us of a new register. 

Paul created a pipeline process to turn the collected files into [a national dataset of brownfield sites](https://digital-land.github.io/dataset/brownfield-land/). Paul took a snapshot of the [brownfield land documentation pages](https://digital-land.github.io/brownfield-land-screenshots/) and Colm has started a [report of the collection](https://digital-land.github.io/resource/report.html) to go alongside our dataset pages. 

Jake used this data to make a [map](https://digital-land.github.io/map/), which now shows the latest brownfield sites as circles, where their size represents the size of the site in hectares.

<a data-flickr-embed="true" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/182343195@N08/49434050693/in/dateposted-public/" title="Brownfield land map"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/49434050693_14b407edf8_k.jpg" alt="Brownfield land map"></a>

The collection includes a number of resources we’ve collected over the past 18 months, including around 60 files collected by Jake’s [proof of concept validator](https://github.com/digital-land/validator-serverless), which are no longer available on council websites.

## Platform 

Stephanie and Lorna have started to develop a research plan for the [‘check your data’](https://brownfield-sites-validator.herokuapp.com/) tool, outlining the questions we want to answer and the features of the tool we may look to test with users in the coming months.

## [Developer contributions](https://digital-land.github.io/project/developer-contributions/)

<a data-flickr-embed="true" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/182343195@N08/49434495971/in/dateposted-public/" title="Developer contributions research playback"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/49434495971_ecdd8487af_k.jpg" alt="Developer contributions research playback"></a>

Lorna presented a playback of user research findings from our visits to local planning authorities. It was agreed that our user needs fall into a few key themes, which we would focus on in the subsequent workshop:

* showing value
* setting expectations
* increasing capability around:
preparing the data
making the files
publishing the files
* giving and receiving feedback
* data model

<a data-flickr-embed="true" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/182343195@N08/49434720777/in/dateposted-public/" title="Developer contributions workshop"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/49434720777_0535bf689a_k.jpg" alt="Developer contributions workshop"></a>

Following the playback, Helena ran a workshop with the Digital Land team and our policy colleagues, where we:

* mapped the main channels and artefacts we currently use to support and communicate with local authorities, and the links between them
* discussed in groups the ways that each artefact met the user needs identified in the research
* ideated ways that the existing or new artefacts could meet the user needs

<a data-flickr-embed="true" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/182343195@N08/49434024463/in/dateposted-public/" title="Outcomes from developer contributions workshop"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/49434024463_3893ddbf3c_k.jpg" alt="Outcomes from developer contributions workshop">

We’ve since spent some time pulling the workshop outputs together and next we’ll set an action plan for improving support for local planning authorities producing the data files and [Infrastructure Funding Statements](https://digital-land.github.io/project/infrastructure-funding-statement/).

## [Local plans](https://digital-land.github.io/project/local-plans/)

We’re procuring a team to work on the next phase of local plans and the overview is now up on [digital marketplace](https://www.digitalmarketplace.service.gov.uk/digital-outcomes-and-specialists/opportunities/11591). Since posting this, we’ve been answering questions submitted by applicants which can be read on the digital marketplace web page.

## Proptech

Jess and Rebecca attended the [UK PropTech Association](https://ukproptech.com/) Seminar on ‘Lessons from other Industries’ exploring “technology adoption in the legal industry, finance industry and health care”, involving corporates and tech start-ups in the industries.

## [Team](https://digital-land.github.io/about/)

Matt, Helena and Emily worked on some web content detailing our [team governance and ways of working](/about/how-we-work/). We think this will be useful for other teams we work with to get to know a bit about our ways of working.

[Victor Dominello](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victor_Dominello) visited us to talk about improving the user experience of planning. We were joined by our Chief Planner, [Steve Quartermain](https://www.gov.uk/government/people/steve-quartermain).

<a data-flickr-embed="true" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/182343195@N08/49434886292/in/dateposted-public/" title="Steve Quartermain talks with the team"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/49434886292_21e2560a18_k.jpg" alt="Steve Quartermain talks with the team"></a>

Rebecca has been building our roadmap on our team wall, which is working well as a way to visualise our work and show others what we’re working towards.

Helena and Stephanie facilitated a team hypotheses workshop where we: 
* reviewed the team’s high level hypotheses around purpose, onboarding suppliers and making data
* prioritised hypotheses and work streams using traffic light voting stickers 
* generated questions and sub-hypotheses to help inform the service design and user research plan

Following this workshop Helena and Stephanie analysed the insights and held another ‘deep dive’ session with Paul and Matt to focus on hypotheses at a user and platform level. 

Stephanie, Helena and Lorna have been using the roadmap and hypotheses work to start building a user research and service design plan across all projects for Q4 2019/20 and Q1 2020/21. 
